---
layout: page
title: About
---
***About***

Based on two summer institutes held at the University of California, Los
Angeles  in 2014 and 2015, this online textbook and collection of
resources is meant to provide introductory materials to digital
approaches relevant to art history. Originally taught by [Johanna
Drucker](http://gseis.ucla.edu/directory/johanna-drucker/) (Bernard and
Martin Breslauer Professor of Bibliography, Information Studies),
[Steven
Nelson](http://www.international.ucla.edu/africa/people/person.asp?Facultystaff_ID=68)
(Associate Professor of African and African American Art History), [Todd
Presner](http://www.cdh.ucla.edu/people/faculty/431-todd-presner-.html)
(Chair, Digital Humanities Program, and Professor of Germanic Languages
and Comparative Literature), [Miriam
Posner](http://www.miriamposner.com/about.html) (Digital Humanities
Program Coordinator and Institute Director), the majority of readings
and tutorials assume no prior knowledge or experience and are meant to
introduce fundamental skills and critical issues in digital art history.
Readers and users will learn about debates and key concepts in the
digital humanities and can gained hands-on experience with tools and
techniques for art historical research, including metadata basics, data
visualization, network graphs, and digital mapping.

Major support for the program and online textbook was provided by the
Getty Foundation.

The chapters resemble the major topics of the institute, and each
section is presented as a lesson plan. These topics are:

1.  Introduction/ Overview to DH and DAH

2.  Scoping and Structuring Your Work: Data, Metadata, and Project
    Management

3.  Information Visualization

4.  Maps and Space

5.  3D and Modeling

6.  Next Steps and Pedagogy

The ordering of the chapters becomes more in depth and complex as one
progresses; however, each chapter is similarly structured for easy
navigation. Every chapter contains the following subsections:

-   Readings: Selected to provide the reader with a solid groundwork for
    discussions surround the specific subject matter

-   Resources: There are many resources out there for digital
    humanities work. These are offered as our personal go-to sources to
    get you started.

-   Tutorials: Walk-throughs to learn specific tools and skills

-   Tools: Selection of tools that will allow for users to experiment
    and begin working

-   Projects: Examples of work that has been produced in the field with
    related digital tools

Concepts are discussed in the readings provided in the first section of
each chapter in order to make connections between critical ideas,
hands-on tutorials, resources for further learning and support, and
relevant examples. These resources and tutorials are geared towards
fostering the understanding of the concepts introduced in the readings:
how to structure data for digital environments; utilize classifications
and descriptive standards; learn to identify the components of and
deconstruct digital projects; carefully consider the epistemological
implications of data-driven analysis and spatio-temporal
representations. Demos often only require text editors, commonly
available (or free) software.

The Tutorials section focuses on specific tools that are used to do the
work prescribed in the chapter. These tutorials are meant to serve as
basic introductions with commentaries that relate their usage to the
concepts often covered in the readings. The exhibits, text analysis,
data visualization, maps & timelines, wireframing and html are all
components of digital art history work and readers will become familiar
with all of these digital approaches throughout the chapters.  However,
the goal of this resource is not only the successful implementation of
the tools, but also the recognition of their possibilities and
limitations during the process. Readers will learn the skills for ruling
out tools and tech for their projects, as much as they learn what might
work best.

The Projects section represents one approach of incorporating all of the
above for a more substantial and ‘packaged’ final project.

In compiling these ideas and resources from the summer institutes, we
emphasize the flexibility of these concepts and methods for instruction
for any course with varying levels of engagement with digital tools. We
hope to also continue to add other approaches as they emerge. We invite
suggestions and submissions from instructors and students, including
syllabi, tutorials, and case studies through github.

These materials are authored. If you use them, please cite them as you
would any other publication. They are freely available for use, but if
you cut, paste, and incorporate them into your own lessons, be sure to
include a link and citation of this resource. If you would like to
change, correct, or add to anything in this coursebook, please do so
through github.  You may enter an issue into github or make a pull of
the site yourself. We would like to keep this current and useful.

**Miriam Posner, Johanna Drucker, Todd Presner, Steven Nelson, and
Francesca Albrezzi, 2016**
